---
layout: post
title: Finity upcoming release and transition
tags: finity
---

_As appeared on the Finity mailing list_ &mdash; Dear all. In the latest commit
(r1279) I have updated the changelog to summarize our developments since last
release. Please let me know if you feel that anything important is missing.

It is my intention to make one final release of finity, before entering a new
development phase under its new name, nutils. If anyone objects, speak now or
forever hold your peace.

Just kidding. You're too late. It's done.

This being the last finity version before killing it off, I think it is only
appropriate for this one to bear Ned's name. Perhaps a little celebration
memorial is in place. Next week when the release is out I will bring some cake
to the office. People with too much time on their hands are invited to provide
the [decoration](http://notyourmommascookie.com/2012/04/game-of-thrones-cake-pops/).

The Game of Thrones theme failed to shine, mainly because of the extremely low
release frequency. Fortunately, we now have a golden opportunity to fix this.
For reasons that will become clear in a second, let me propose the names of the
next 17 major versions:

 01. "Bakmi" - Southeast Asian Chinese yellow wheat nutils with meat, usually chicken
 02. "Chūka men" - Japanese for "Chinese nutils", used for ramen, champon, and yakisoba
 03. "Kesme" - flat, yellow or reddish brown Central Asian wheat nutils
 04. "Kalguksu" - knife-cut Korean nutils
 05. "Lamian" - hand-pulled Chinese nutils
 06. "Mee pok" - flat, yellow Chinese nutils, popular in Southeast Asia
 07. "Pasta" - made from durum wheat and cut into various shapes, originated in Italy but now known all over the world
 08. "Reshte" - Central Asian, flat nutil, very pale in colour (almost white) used in Persian and Afghani cuisine
 09. "Sōmen" - thin variety of Japanese wheat nutils, often coated with vegetable oil
 10. "Spätzle" - a Swabian type of nutil made of wheat and eggs
 11. "Thukpa" - flat Tibetan nutils
 12. "Udon" - thicker variety of Japanese wheat nutils
 13. "Idiyappam" - an Indian rice nutil.
 14. "Makguksu" - local specialty of Gangwon Province in South Korea
 15. "Memil naengmyeon" - Korean nutils made of buckwheat, slightly more chewy than soba
 16. "Soba" - Japanese buckwheat nutils
 17. "Pizzoccheri" - Italian buckwheat tagliatelle from Valtellina, usually served with a melted cheese sauce

The incentive for releasing early and often is this: As of now, it shall be a
tradition of the nutils project that every major version release is to be
celebrated with the entire development team by dining on the corresponding
dish.

Excursions to hard-to-find cuisine are totally allowed.

Of lesser importance is that we will aim to adopt a more professional branching
strategy. I still need to study it a bit myself but I think that something of
[this kind](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/), in
combination with extensive unit testing, can prevent the pains that led some of
us, thinking of people in particular, to abandon updates altogether.

More information will follow shortly. We will keep finity-dev as our main
communication channel for now, taking this transition one step at a time.

First up is Ned's release; probably tomorrow, unless somebody objects. Not you
Joffrey.

Gertjan
